your mom make the very best macaroni and
cheese you ever tasted I thought mine
did until I tasted our macaroni and
cheese 101 at the magazine we tried
maybe 35 or so recipes before we came up
with what we voted on was the warmest
the richest the most deliciously cheesy
macaroni and cheese any of us had ever
tasted macaroni and cheese has been
around a very long time legend has it
that Thomas Jefferson a known lover of
food brought a macaroni machine back
from a trip to Italy and he would serve
macaroni and cheese at dinner parties
centuries later in 1937 to be exact
Kraft introduced macaroni and cheese
dinners in that familiar blue box to the
marketplace making it one of America's
favorite comfort foods and macaroni and
cheese 101 is one of mine too and I'll
show you how to make the one that we
just think is so good in a little
saucepan melt two tablespoons of
unsalted butter and here are six slices
of white bread that had been just D
crusted and torn into little pieces just
drizzle the butter over that bread this
is the bread crumb topping for the final
dish and just toss the butter with the
bread and just set it aside meanwhile in
a heavy bottom sauce pan like this one
melt six tablespoons of butter and in
another pot bring to a boil five and a
half cups of whole milk and this has
already come to a boil it's actually
forming a little skin on top which is
fine just stir that up and in this
butter that's melted stir in a half a
cup of all-purpose flour we want to cook
flour and butter and then add the milk
that's called in French a bechamel sauce
don't burn the butter and the flour make
sure you just cook the flour so adjust
your heat
necessary by the way also have a big pot
of water boiling and put in your
macaroni and you're going to cook one
whole pound of macaroni in lightly
salted water and you're going to cook it
for about three to four minutes less
than the box tells you because you want
it a little bit al dente a little hard
to the tooth so let's just cook that and
I'm going to add just a little bit of
salt
now here are Bishan mill base is cooking
and now stir in very slowly you're
boiling milk you're going to keep
stirring we do not want to lumpy
bechamel I'm going to transfer from a
wooden spoon to a whisk nice and thick
now you can raise your heat a little bit
and start cooking this a lot of milk but
we're going to make a big macaroni and
cheese it's already pretty smooth but
we're going to cook and cook until this
starts to thicken it's going to bubble
and then become thick all of a sudden
I'm just tasting our macaroni and it
tastes done it it better be poured right
into a colander in the sink
one way to avoid a lot of steam if you
don't want a facial is to run the cold
water not on the pasta but next to the
colander it keeps down the steam a
little bit and shake out all the water
and I have to wash my bechamel see how
nice and thick it's becoming once it's
thick just to remove it from the heat
and then we're going to add half a
teaspoon of salt a quarter of a teaspoon
of freshly grated nutmeg and it's really
nice to grate your own nutmeg smells so
good and nutmeg is very important I
think and macaroni and cheese
and don't forget cayenne pepper this is
something that my mom did add to her
macaroni and cheese quarter of a
teaspoon of cayenne pepper mom added at
least that much none of us really like
tremendously spicy food but we liked the
taste of cayenne pepper and we also love
the taste of black pepper and add a
quarter of a teaspoon of freshly ground
black pepper too and now into this
bechamel add your cheese three cups of
cheddar cheese and one and a half cups
of Gruyere and now you can just add your
macaroni
make sure you coat all the macaroni with
the bechamel we'll pour this into our
dish you can avoid the topping if you
like and just put this into the oven but
the topping with the wonderful
breadcrumb crustiness is something that
if you haven't tried it you should try
at least once you'll love it
so now we're going to sprinkle with the
Gruyere and the cheddar and even layer
both now you can put this in the freezer
and wrap it really well and have it for
parties it's just a real old fashioned
and very homey buffet this is the bread
crumb topping now make sure your oven is
preheated to 375 degrees so we're ready
to get that right into the oven and
we're going to bake it in the oven until
it's browned on top for about 45 to 60
minutes and here is our really beautiful
bubbling macaroni and cheese it's really
important to let that just sit for five
minutes or so it's still piping hot but
it's not going to burn you and take as
much as you like now you don't have to
do this but my mother always gave us a
little dollop of ice-cold sour cream on
top of our macaroni and cheese so I'm
going to have it that way and I'll let
you know how it tastes
macaroni and cheese 101 something that
everyone's going to love
pretty good with that sour cream